---
layout: post
title: "Team of Teams"
date: 2019-11-10
---
A number of books have strongly influenced my thinking on program management: [_Black Swan_ by Nasim Taleb](https://read.amazon.com/kp/embed?asin=B00139XTG4&preview=newtab&linkCode=kpe&ref_=cm_sw_r_kb_dp_cp3XDb0PV7JAY),[_Thinking Fast and Slow_ by Daniel Kahneman](https://read.amazon.com/kp/embed?asin=B00555X8OA&preview=newtab&linkCode=kpe&ref_=cm_sw_r_kb_dp_fr3XDb3TJWYHD). But over the last few years, no book draws me back into it more than Gen. Stanley McCrystal's _Team of Teams_. No other book captures the problems that I have been confronted with on a daily basis for some time.  Amazing that the person who has captured it better than anyone else in print is a 4-star General who managed the Iraq occupation rather than someone more closely related to my profession. It isn't for lack of trying that I haven't found a book by a professional engineer who put these ideas on paper.

What are the problems that McCrystal describes that resonate with me?  In Iraq, McCrystal's enemy was  al-Qaeda in Iraq, who worked (very successfully for some time) to terrorize Iraq to discredit the US forces and their goals.  al-Qaeda in Iraq was not the traditional enemy that the Army and McCrystal had planned and trained to fight.  Their org-chart was a mess, it resembled a non-hierarchal network of computers on an internet rather than a corporate or military org chart with one name at the top and positions growing linearly as one progressed down each level of the chart.  The US Army's early metrics of success turned out to be meaningless against such an organization.

> We killed "about 20 of al Qaeda's 'number threes' over the past decade, but everyone in a network is a number three"

Despite all of the in expenditures in money, brains, and life and limb that the US and it's allies were pouring in, this headless, and relatively poorly equipped enemy was winning.  McCrystal and his organization recognized this, and began to look to how they could mirror the successful techniques of their enemy to beat them.  In the book, McCrystal's next metaphorical enemy is [Frederick Taylor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederick_Winslow_Taylor), a rather famous (and dead for some time) _engineer_.  Taylor begat corporate America's continuous drive for efficiency gains through rigorous adherence to standard processes to Taylor.  Engineers and program managers live with it every day.  Is your program behind? Over budget?  Your need a more detailed plan, we have a new process for you.  I've made a lot of plans.  I work hard at them.  I'm above average at making them.  No matter how hard I work or plan ahead of time, there is no way my program will go according to plan.  McCrystal says that I'm doing it wrong.  In the complex world that McCrystal, and by implication in the book, I am working in, requires a different approach.  _Efficiency should no longer be king_...

> The pursuit of "efficiency"-getting the most with the least investment of energy, time, or money-was once a laudable goal, but being effective in today's world is less a question of optimizing for a known (and relatively stable) set of variables than responsiveness to a constantly shifting environment.  Adaptability, not efficiency, must become our central competency.

